Ember 4.0 release blog post (#1036)
ember-learn/ember-blog: content/ember-4-0-released.md

---
title: Ember 4.0 released
authors:
  - jen-weber
date: 2021-11-22T00:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - releases
  - '2021'
  - version-4-x
---

Today, the Ember project is releasing version 4.0.0 of Ember.js, Ember Data, and
Ember CLI. Ember it focuses
the framework by removing long-deprecated APIs and support for legacy platforms.
With these changes, Ember Octane becomes the norm!

> As planned, this release introduces no new features.

Reviewer: This is orthogonal to the release post, but I feel like we need a subclass of semver to communicate our sort of take on this. Some projects just do breaking changes whenever they feel like and never deprecate things, and they burn through majors like it's their job. :thinking: Maybe @wycats' wordsmithery has some ideas <3

Reviewer: (though, I now see this is expanded on in the next section, but good words (ie: a name) give good marketing, so :shrug: )

Author: That's a great point. I think we need a full blog post on this topic. We just need a name for it. I don't think there is one.

Reviewer 2: We should be careful to keep the release post focused on the release. It is dense enough as is, and imo not the place to argue or advocate for release/versioning strategy in depth.

Reviewer 3: I agree with @mixonic - @NullVoxPopuli if you want to DM me in Discord, I'll help you coordinate this. I'm going to resolve this conversation for now.

Ember 3.15, the framework has continued to support "Classic" framework features
in accordance with our semantic versioning commitment. Ember 4.0 takes a step
forward and drops already-deprecated classic APIs, however the foundational `EmberComponent`
and `EmberObject`/`computed` APIs are not removed in this release.

This blog post will help you understand how to upgrade and navigate any breaking changes.

> Additionally, today the 4.1 beta cycle begins for these same projects. Ember's

Reviewer 4: I'd drop this whole paragraph. We don't always have all the betas out by the time of the release post and we usually consider the cycle starting when Ember.js itself branches. The info also seems superfluous to the post.

This has been the tradition for all major Ember releases since v2.
We believe that major versions should be rare, and that when they happen,
they should not introduce new features. 

This strategy aims to give Ember
developers the time and space to upgrade dependencies and 
navigate any breaking changes, without needing to
learn lots of new things at the same time.
In many libraries including Ember, a major release means that there are breaking changes.
And while it would be exciting for major releases to be splashy and full of
new features,
we think it is more important to reduce risks for our developers and
the users that depend on them.

Our hope is that that library maintainers across the JavaScript ecosystem
will follow this pattern, which makes it easier for developers to keep up
with security patches and bugfixes in their project's dependencies.

Our plans for Ember 4.0 were originally announced in July 2021 in 
[The Road to Ember 4.0](https://blog.emberjs.com/the-road-to-ember-4-0/).

## Trying Ember for the first time

If you're interested in trying Ember for the
first time today, get started by running:

```bash
npx ember-cli new my-project
cd my-project

> npx ember serve # Then visit http://localhost:4200

Reviewer: does `npx ember` point at ember-cli?

Author: Not exactly? This is invalid:

```
npx ember new my-test-app
npm ERR! could not determine executable to run
```

This _is_ valid.
```
npx ember-cli serve
```

Any thoughts on whether we should be using `npx ember-cli` for all command examples?

Reviewer 2: IMO npx makes sense for installation, but traditional use of the 'ember' command should be the norm after project setup.

first time today, get started by running:

```bash
npx ember-cli new my-project
cd my-project
npx ember serve # Then visit http://localhost:4200
```

## How to upgrade your project to Ember 4

If your app or addon runs with no deprecations in the latest release of `v3.28`
and you have `v2` of `ember-auto-import` installed, you should be able to
upgrade to Ember 4 with no additional changes.

Follow these steps in order:

1. Upgrade your project to the latest patch version of `v3.28`.
   Many developers can do this by running
   `npx ember-cli-update --to 3.28`. More details about how to upgrade your Ember
   app/addon are in the
   [general upgrade guide](https://cli.emberjs.com/release/basic-use/upgrading/#upgradinganemberappitself).
2. Resolve all deprecation warnings. Deprecated APIs are removed in Ember 4. You may need to upgrade some
   of your dependencies if they are using deprecated APIs. Applications that need to upgrade through several versions may want to consider
   the
   [ember-cli-deprecation-workflow](https://github.com/mixonic/ember-cli-deprecation-workflow)
   addon to isolate individual deprecations.
3. Make sure your app builds successfully.

> 4. Install `ember-auto-import` if your app does not already have it:

Reviewer 4: I'm not sure this is sufficient to install `ember-auto-import` v2, as it requires webpack also be installed. The README suggests `npm install --save-dev ember-auto-import webpack` Maybe we should point to the `ember-auto-import` README?

Read more about this change in the [deprecation guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x/#toc_3-0-browser-support-policy) and at Ember's [browser support policy page](https://emberjs.com/browser-support/).

### `ember-auto-import` is now required

Using Ember 4 or higher requires that the project has version `2.0.0` or later of `ember-auto-import` installed.
Follow the "How to upgrade" steps above to learn what you need to do.

Why is this change required?
`ember-auto-import` supports something we call the
[v2 addon format](https://emberjs.github.io/rfcs/0507-embroider-v2-package-format.html). This specification
describes how to publish an Ember CLI addon which has minimal build overhead
and better compatibility with modern build and analysis tooling (think [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)).
Later in Ember's 4.x release cycle, we intend to release framework libraries as
v2 addons to take advantage of those improvements.

## Changes in Ember.js 4.0

Ember.js is the core of the Ember framework. It provides routing, rendering, and
dependency injection features.

> Ember.js 4.0 introduces no new public API or deprecations. Instead, it is

Reviewer 4: This isn't true -- there's at least one new deprecation for `assign`

## Changes in Ember Data 4.0

Ember Data is the official data persistence library for Ember.js applications.

This release removes APIs that were [deprecated in the 3.x cycle](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x). Examples include:

- The API `store.defaultAdapter` is removed - [deprecation guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x#toc_ember-data-default-adapter)
- Support for relying on fallback behavior for adapter type is removed.
  You should [specify adapter types explicitly](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x#toc_ember-data-default-adapter).
- Similarly, `adapter.defaultSerializer` and support for relying on fallback behavior for the
  serializer type [is removed](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x#toc_ember-data-default-serializers)
- The [Evented API is removed](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x#toc_evented-api-usage)
- ...and other APIs listed in the [deprecation guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x)

For more details on the changes in Ember Data 4.0, please review the
[Ember Data 4.0.0 release page](https://github.com/emberjs/data/releases/tag/v4.0.0).

> ## Changes in Ember CLI 4.0

Reviewer 5: Maybe (some of) these might be worth including in the Ember CLI section?

- https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/pull/9563
- https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/pull/9579
- https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/pull/9595

Reviewer 3: hmmm. Major versions are supposed to only be about removing deprecated APIs not adding new things. Were these really added in 4.0?

Reviewer 5: Yes => https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/blob/master/CHANGELOG.md#v400.

Reviewer 2: I've updated the post to call out the CI provider change (also GitHub Actions is now the default in 4.0) and the exclude/include change.

I left out the pnpm PR as I'm not sure how much that is a step toward pnpm support vs "pnpm just works well everywhere now". I think the latter would be worth a call-out, but highlighting an incremental step might be a bit confusing.

I asked @Turbo87 for feedback on Discord. He could always update this in a followup.

Ember CLI is the command line interface for managing and packaging Ember.js
applications.

There are no deprecations, removals, or new features in Ember CLI v4.

For more details on the changes in Ember CLI 4.0 and detailed upgrade
instructions, please review the [Ember CLI 4.0.0 release page](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/releases/tag/v4.0.0).

## Need help?

Are you stuck on something? Do you have questions?
Visit one of our [community chat groups](https://emberjs.com/community).

## What next?

Want to help make Ember 4 a success? Here are some things you can do!

- Blog about your experience

> - If someone helps you with a question, consider positing both the question

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
- If someone helps you with a question, consider posting both the question
```

Reviewer 5: Oh wow, it seems `positing` is a word. Sorry if this suggestion is incorrect! I thought it was a typo 😬

Reviewer 3: I think it's the incorrect use of the word `positing` anyway, so your suggestion should still be considered.

Octane, by existing application and addon code.

### APIs Removed in 4.0

Below we've listed some of the most significant API removals in Ember.js 4.0.
For a complete list of removals, see the [Ember.js 3.x deprecation
guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x).

- `Ember.Logger` is removed in favor of native `console` APIs. [Guide here](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x/#toc_ember-console-deprecate-logger).
- `Copyable` mixin is removed in favor of the [ember-copy addon](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-copy). [Guide here](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x/#toc_ember-runtime-deprecate-copy-copyable).
- `sendAction` is removed in favor of calling closure actions like any other callback. [Guide here](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x/#toc_ember-component-send-action).
- `willTransition` and `didTransition` are removed in favor of router service events. [Guide here](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x/#toc_deprecate-router-events).
- Computed Property `volatile()` calls are removed in favor of native getters. [Guide here](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x/#toc_computed-property-volatile).

> - `this.$()` and other jQuery APIs are deprecated in favor of native browser equivalents. [Guide here](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x/#toc_jquery-apis). An optional feature which restored this and other jQuery-specific features is also removed. [Guide here](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x/#toc_optional-feature-jquery-integration).

Author: Is this deprecated, or removed in v4? This bullet point should be updated if it has been removed.

Reviewer 3: Looking at [this PR](https://github.com/emberjs/rfc-tracking/issues/3) I don't think the work was completed, but maybe @rwjblue or @simonihmig can check the list to see if the work was completed and the list just wasn't updated.

Reviewer 6: The list wasn't updated, will leave a comment there. The work is done. And yes, they have been *removed*!

Reviewer 2: I've updated the text here appropriately. I expect it was left over from a copy-paste job.

support for about 36 weeks, and security patches for about 54 weeks. See the
[3.28 release post](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-3-28-released) and [LTS
documentation](https://emberjs.com/releases/lts/) for more details.

For applications using LTS releases, upgrading directly to 4.0 is not
encouraged. Best practice for those applications is to upgrade to Ember 3.28 LTS
as soon as possible, then wait for the first LTS of the 4.0 series to be
released. Ember 4.4 will be the first candidate.

## Major Releases in Ember

Starting with Ember 2.0, major versions of Ember have been about removal
of deprecated APIs, and not about the introduction of new features or development styles.
Ember 4.0 follows that tradition, and will contain no new features.

Our plans for Ember 4.0 were originally announced in July 2021 in
[The Road to Ember 4.0](https://blog.emberjs.com/the-road-to-ember-4-0/).

## Trying Ember for the first time

If you're interested in trying Ember for the
first time today, get started by running:

```bash
# Make sure you are on the latest npm version, 8.x
npm --version
npx ember-cli@latest new my-project
cd my-project
npx ember serve

> # Then visit http://localhost:4200

Reviewer 2: Please confirm these exact commands work as stated before merge (or someone comment here that they have done so).

Reviewer 5: In this example, `npx ember serve` will work, because `ember` is the name of the executable within `/node_modules/.bin`. It's the first time I've seen it like this in any documentation though. Running e.g. `npx ember new` somewhere else will not work as it must be `npx ember-cli new` instead. After creating a new app, Ember CLI suggests to run `yarn start` or `npm start`. So that could be suggested as well instead of `npx ember serve`? And the docs use `ember server`.

Reviewer 2: Yeah I really don't like suggesting `npm ember s` here when it is only using the local path. `npx`, to me, always implies running some thing from the package `ember`. In this case it is running something from "locally installed ember-cli", a usage which I've never seen.

I don't know why we're introducing a new style of usage here and now. I'd like top revert it, again. @jenweber I think you brought it back after an earlier reversion, or had comments elsewhere here.

Reviewer 2: Prior discussion:

* https://github.com/ember-learn/ember-blog/pull/1036#discussion_r753834945
* https://github.com/ember-learn/ember-blog/pull/1036#issuecomment-990034431

I think we agree not using `npx ember s` is the norm. I'm not clear on why @jenweber said `ember s` wouldn't work without the global installed. I thought it would be found from `node_modules/.bin` as well. If it isn't, then what we really want is `yarn run ember s`, etc.

Actually, I think `npm start` is the right thing to do here. I'm going to update to that.

- The internal APIs of `<LinkTo>`, `<Input>`, `<Checkbox>`, and `<Textarea>` are now private,
  and subclassing them is no longer supported.
  An example of subclassing looks like this: `export class MyLinkComponent extends LinkTo`.
  Apps or addons that subclass can install
  the library [`@ember/legacy-built-in-components`](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-legacy-built-in-components)
  as a stepping stone, following [this deprecation guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x#toc_ember-built-in-components-import).
- ...and additional uncommon deprecations found in the [Ember.js 3.x deprecation
  guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x)

Many of these removed APIs date back to Ember 1.x, and are rarely used now (or should be rarely used).

For more details on the changes in Ember.js 4.0, please review the
[Ember.js 4.0.0 release page](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/releases/tag/v4.0.0).

### Deprecations added in 4.0

The following public API, marked as deprecated in Ember 4.0, will be removed in
Ember 5.0:

> - Use of `Ember.assign` is deprecated. You should replace any calls to `Ember.assign` with `Object.assign` or use the object spread operator. See the [deprecation guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v4.x#toc_ember-polyfills-deprecate-assign) for examples.

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Use of `Ember.assign` is deprecated. You should replace any calls to `Ember.assign` with `Object.assign` or use the [object spread operator](https://developer.mozilla.org/en-US/docs/Web/JavaScript/Reference/Operators/Spread_syntax). See the [deprecation guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v4.x#toc_ember-polyfills-deprecate-assign) for examples.
```

- Similarly, `adapter.defaultSerializer` and support for relying on fallback behavior for the
  serializer type [is removed](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x#toc_ember-data-default-serializers)
- The [Evented API is removed](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x#toc_evented-api-usage)
- ...and other APIs listed in the [deprecation guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x)

For more details on the changes in Ember Data 4.0, please review the
[Ember Data 4.0.0 release page](https://github.com/emberjs/data/releases/tag/v4.0.0).

## Changes in Ember CLI 4.0

Ember CLI is the command line interface for managing and packaging Ember.js
applications.

There are no deprecations, removals, or new features in Ember CLI v4.

For more details on the changes in Ember CLI 4.0 and detailed upgrade
instructions, please review the [Ember CLI 4.0.0 release page](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/releases/tag/v4.0.0).

## Need help?

Are you stuck on something? Do you have questions?
Visit one of our [community chat groups](https://emberjs.com/community).

## What next?

Want to help make Ember 4 a success? Here are some things you can do!

> - Blog about your experience

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Blog about your experience.
```

- If someone helps you with a question, consider positing both the question
  and answer to a public place like Stack Overflow or the Ember Discourse forums,

>   so that others can learn from it

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
  so that others can learn from it.
```

> - Help your favorite addons to upgrade to Ember 4

Reviewer 3: ```suggestion
- Help your favorite addons to upgrade to Ember 4!
```

---
title: Ember 4.0 released
authors:
  - jen-weber
  - matthew-beale
date: 2021-11-22T00:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - releases
  - '2021'
  - version-4-x
---

Today the Ember project is releasing version 4.0 of Ember.js, Ember Data, and
Ember CLI. This major version bump focuses
the framework by removing long-deprecated APIs and support for legacy platforms.

Although [Ember "Octane"](https://emberjs.com/editions/octane/) APIs have been
the default for new applications since Ember 3.15, the framework has continued
to support "Classic" framework features in accordance with our semantic
versioning commitment. Ember 4.0 takes a step forward and drops
already-deprecated classic APIs, however the foundational `EmberComponent` and
`EmberObject`/`computed` APIs are not removed in this release.

> This blog post will help you understand how to upgrade and navigate any breaking

Reviewer 7: I think this sentence would go better at the end of the opening paragraph `Today the Ember project ... support for legacy platforms."` Currently, the next paragraph, which begins with `Additionally`, doesn't sound right due to this sentence.

changes.

Additionally, today we're promoting Ember 3.28 to become Ember's latest
Long-Term Support (LTS) release. Ember's LTS release process provides bugfix
support for about 36 weeks, and security patches for about 54 weeks. See the
[3.28 release post](https://blog.emberjs.com/ember-3-28-released) and [LTS
documentation](https://emberjs.com/releases/lts/) for more details.

For applications using LTS releases, upgrading directly to 4.0 is not
encouraged. Best practice for those applications is to upgrade to Ember 3.28 LTS
as soon as possible, then wait for the first LTS of the 4.0 series to be
released. Ember 4.4 will be the first candidate.

## Major Releases in Ember

Why are there no new features in this release?

> This has been the tradition for all major Ember releases since v2.

Reviewer 7: A nitpick. The word `all` may sound weird because there were only 2 major versions before (not several). I think it's okay to leave the word out.

```suggestion
This has been the tradition for major Ember releases since v2.
```

We believe that major versions should be rare, and that when they happen,
they should not introduce new features.

This strategy aims to give Ember developers the time and space to upgrade
dependencies and navigate any breaking changes, without needing to learn lots of
new things at the same time. In many libraries, including Ember, a major
release means that there are breaking changes. And while it would be exciting
for major releases to be splashy and full of new features, we think it is more
important to reduce risks for our developers and the users that depend on them.

> Our hope is that that library maintainers across the JavaScript ecosystem

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
Our hope is that library maintainers across the JavaScript ecosystem
```

will follow this pattern, which makes it easier for developers to keep up
with security patches and bugfixes in their project's dependencies.

Our plans for Ember 4.0 were originally announced in July 2021 in
[The Road to Ember 4.0](https://blog.emberjs.com/the-road-to-ember-4-0/).

## Trying Ember for the first time

If you're interested in trying Ember for the
first time today, get started by running:

```bash
npx ember-cli new my-project
cd my-project
ember serve # Then visit http://localhost:4200
```

## How to upgrade your project to Ember 4

If your app or addon runs with no deprecations in the latest release of `v3.28`
and you have `v2` of `ember-auto-import` installed, you should be able to
upgrade to Ember 4 with no additional changes.

Follow these steps in order:

1. Upgrade your project to the latest patch version of `v3.28`.
   Many developers can do this by running

>    `npx ember-cli-update --to 3.28`. More details about how to upgrade your Ember
>    app/addon are in the
>    [general upgrade guide](https://cli.emberjs.com/release/basic-use/upgrading/#upgradinganemberappitself).

Reviewer 7: I think we could reverse the order to make the sentence sound more active. (similarly for lines 104-106)

```suggestion
   `npx ember-cli-update --to 3.28`. The [general upgrade guide](https://cli.emberjs.com/release/basic-use/upgrading/#upgradinganemberappitself) has more details about how to upgrade your Ember app/addon.
```

2. Resolve all deprecation warnings. Deprecated APIs are removed in Ember 4. You
   may need to upgrade some of your dependencies if they are using deprecated
   APIs. See the [Ember Deprecation Guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/)
   for more details about specific deprecations and how to resolve them.
   Applications that need to upgrade through several versions may want to

>    consider the
>    [ember-cli-deprecation-workflow](https://github.com/mixonic/ember-cli-deprecation-workflow)
>    addon to isolate individual deprecations.

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
   consider isolating individual deprecations by using
   [ember-cli-deprecation-workflow](https://github.com/mixonic/ember-cli-deprecation-workflow).
```

3. Make sure your app builds successfully.

> 4. Install `ember-auto-import` if your app does not already have it follow the

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
4. Install `ember-auto-import` if your app does not already have it. Follow the
```

   many developers can do this by running
   `npx ember-cli-update --to 4.0`. More details about how to upgrade your Ember
   app/addon are in the
   [general upgrade guide](https://cli.emberjs.com/release/basic-use/upgrading/#upgradinganemberappitself).

## What is in Ember 4?

### Browser Support in 4.0

Ember 4.0 supports two classes of browsers: Evergreen (those on a weeks-long, auto-upgrade release cycle) and non-evergreen. This classification system allows us to create a rolling minimum version for evergreen browsers, while using a more traditional, pinned minimum version for non-evergreen browsers.

Specifically, the Ember 4.x release policy includes support for Google Chrome, Mozilla Firefox, Microsoft Edge, and Apple Safari on desktop and mobile. **It does not include support for any version of Internet Explorer.**

Read more about this change in the [deprecation guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x/#toc_3-0-browser-support-policy) and at Ember's [browser support policy page](https://emberjs.com/browser-support/).

### `ember-auto-import` is now required

Using Ember 4 or higher requires that the project has version `2.0.0` or later

> of `ember-auto-import` installed. Follow the "How to upgrade" steps above to

Reviewer 7: If possible, I would try adding a hyperlink to the section above.

```md
Follow the steps in [How to upgrade](#some-id...).
```

learn what you need to do.

Why is this change required? `ember-auto-import` supports something we call the
[v2 addon
format](https://emberjs.github.io/rfcs/0507-embroider-v2-package-format.html).

> This specification describes how to publish an Ember CLI addon which has minimal

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
This specification describes how to publish an Ember CLI addon that has minimal
```

build overhead and better compatibility with modern build and analysis tooling
(think [Webpack](https://webpack.js.org/)). Later in Ember's 4.x release cycle,
we intend to release framework libraries as v2 addons to take advantage of those
improvements.

## Changes in Ember.js 4.0

Ember.js is the core of the Ember framework. It provides routing, rendering, and
dependency injection features.

Ember.js 4.0 introduces no new public API. Instead, it is comprised of bug fixes
and the removal of previously deprecated public API from the 3.x cycle.

Ember 4.0 does _not_ remove the `EmberComponent` API or the core parts of the
`EmberObject` system. These APIs are widely used, even after the release of
Octane, by existing application and addon code.

### APIs Removed in 4.0

Below we've listed some of the most significant API removals in Ember.js 4.0.

> and for an full list of removals, see the [Ember.js 3.x deprecation

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
For a complete list of removals, see the [Ember.js 3.x deprecation
```

- The internal APIs of `<LinkTo>`, `<Input>`, `<Checkbox>`, and `<Textarea>` are now private,
  and subclassing them is no longer supported.
  An example of subclassing looks like this: `export class MyLinkComponent extends LinkTo`.
  Apps or addons that subclass can install
  the library [`@ember/legacy-built-in-components`](https://github.com/emberjs/ember-legacy-built-in-components)
  as a stepping stone, following [this deprecation guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x#toc_ember-built-in-components-import).
- ...and additional uncommon deprecations found in the [Ember.js 3.x deprecation
  guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v3.x)

Many of these removed APIs date back to Ember 1.x, and are rarely used now (or should be rarely used).

For more details on the changes in Ember.js 4.0, please review the
[Ember.js 4.0.0 release page](https://github.com/emberjs/ember.js/releases/tag/v4.0.0).

### Deprecations added in 4.0

> Public API deprecations added in Ember 4.0 target removal in Ember 5.0. One

Reviewer 7: I found the first sentence hard to parse and understand. If I understood the gist, I think the following will be easier to read.

```suggestion
Public API, marked as deprecated in Ember 4.0, will be removed in Ember 5.0. One
```

such deprecation was introduced:

- Use of `Ember.assign` is deprecated. You should replace any calls to `Ember.assign` with `Object.assign` or use the object spread operator. See the [deprecation guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/v4.x#toc_ember-polyfills-deprecate-assign) for examples.

## Changes in Ember Data 4.0

> ---
> 

Reviewer 7: Not sure why `---` appears here and a couple of more times below.

```suggestion
```

Ember Data is the official data persistence library for Ember.js applications.

> This release removes APIs that were [deprecated in the 3.x cycle](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x). They include:

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
This release removes APIs that were [deprecated in the 3.x cycle](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x). Examples include:
```

- The API `store.defaultAdapter` is removed - [deprecation guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x#toc_ember-data-default-adapter)
- Support for relying on fallback behavior for adapter type is removed.
  You should [specify adapter types explicitly](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x#toc_ember-data-default-adapter).
- Similarly, `adapter.defaultSerializer` and support for relying on fallback behavior for the
  serializer type [is removed](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x#toc_ember-data-default-serializers)
- The [Evented API is removed](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x#toc_evented-api-usage)
- ...and other APIs listed in the [deprecation guide](https://deprecations.emberjs.com/ember-data/v3.x)

For more details on the changes in Ember Data 4.0, please review the
[Ember Data 4.0.0 release page](https://github.com/emberjs/data/releases/tag/v4.0.0).

## Changes in Ember CLI 4.0

> ---
> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```

Ember CLI is the command line interface for managing and packaging Ember.js
applications.

There are no deprecations, removals, or new features in Ember CLI v4.

For more details on the changes in Ember CLI 4.0 and detailed upgrade
instructions, please review the [Ember CLI 4.0.0 release page](https://github.com/ember-cli/ember-cli/releases/tag/v4.0.0).

> ---
> 

Reviewer 7: ```suggestion
```

title: Ember 4.0 released
authors:
  - jen-weber
  - matthew-beale
date: 2021-11-22T00:00:00.000Z
tags:
  - releases
  - '2021'
  - version-4-x
---

Today, the Ember project is releasing version 4.0 of Ember.js, Ember Data, and
Ember CLI. This major version bump focuses
the framework by removing long-deprecated APIs and support for legacy platforms.

Although Ember "Octane" APIs have been the default for new applications since
Ember 3.15, the framework has continued to support "Classic" framework features
in accordance with our semantic versioning commitment. Ember 4.0 takes a step
forward and drops already-deprecated classic APIs, however the foundational `EmberComponent`

> and `EmberObject`/`computed` APIs are not removed in this release.

Author: @mixonic this is perfect, thank you!

first time today, get started by running:

```bash

> # Make sure you are the latest npm version

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
# Make sure you are on the latest npm version, 8.x
```

- Blog about your experience
- If someone helps you with a question, consider positing both the question
  and answer to a public place like Stack Overflow or the Ember Discourse forums,
  so that others can learn from it
- Help your favorite addons to upgrade to Ember 4
- Stay tuned via the Ember Times for new features and requests for help
  implementing them.

### Thank You!

Thank you to all the amazing Ember 4.0 contributors. This
release was a wide-ranging effort with over 50 API removals in
the `ember-source` package alone, and required coordination of timelines and
execution across all Ember's core libraries and teams. Ember is a project
maintained largely by volunteers, and this release is the result of sustained
contribution across many codebases, timezones, and interests.

> We deeply appreciate the support of our contributors and user community. Thank

Author: @mixonic One thing we chatted about in the framework meeting is that somewhere, we should acknowledge the timeline shifts. Any idea of where that should go?

Reviewer 2: We did in an update to the road to 4.0 blog post. I'm not very interested in saying "thanks for your patience", I'd rather direct a closing paragraph with thanks at the many volunteers who worked to make this happen at all.

Maybe it could be mentioned up front, just as a "originally 4.0 was expected on X date"? We can discuss more on Discord as well. I don't want this to be an apology or something though. Lets just be proud to celebrate the excellent work we've done.
